# Moving Pictures
Moving Pictures is a movies plug-in for the MediaPortal media center application. The goal of the plug-in is to create a very focused and refined experience that requires minimal user interaction. The plug-in emphasizes usability and ease of use in managing a movie collection consisting of ripped DVDs, and movies reencoded in common video formats supported by MediaPortal.

The plug-in's intended focus is exclusively on movie content. It is not designed to manage clips, music videos, TV shows, or any other type of video content. This narrow focus will allow for a much more refined interface than something like the MyVideo interface included in the standard MediaPortal distribution. This focus is based after the similar focus and success of the TVSeries plug-in for MediaPortal.

Moving Pictures is also designed to require the least amount of user interaction possible. If a new movie file or DVD rip is placed in a watch folder, it will automatically be added to the system. Meta data will be retrieved and artwork, both covers and backdrops (fanart) will be automatically downloaded. If user interaction is necessary to clarify the actual title that has been added, the user will be prompted, but this is a last resort. 

# Staying Informed
The community for the Moving Pictures plug-in revolves around the [sub-forum](http://forum.team-mediaportal.com/moving-pictures-284/) located on the MediaPortal website. This is the first place to go for up to the minute information on the plug-in. If you'd like to keep up to date with new releases of Moving Pictures but don't frequent the forums, you can subscribe to the Moving Pictures General Discussion Group. As new versions of the plug-in are released, status updates will be posted to the Discussion Group which will in turn hit your email inbox.

# Getting Involved
The team for the Moving Pictures plug-in is currently pretty small, but if you are interesting in contributing, make a quick post over in the discussion group or send a developer a message on the MediaPortal forums and we can talk about how you can help out. We currently (always) could use C# developers, and skin developers, but if you have another skill set that you think could be useful, don't be shy. If you are interested in helping in any way, we'd be glad to hear from you. Make a post in the Discussion Group. As a side note, we could definitely use a logo for the project so if you are a graphic designer and are interested in throwing something together, we would be very grateful.

If you are a C# developer and want to take a look at the existing code base, you can browse the source code repository via the link above. You could also take a look at the Developers Guide which will, among other things, help you get your local environment setup for working on the Moving Pictures project. 
