#summary Continuation of IDE section of instructions to get up a working development environment setup to contribute to Moving Pictures.

= Testing Your Setup =
=== Building and Running ===
Well believe it or not you are about done, your environment should be ready to go for development purposes. The key test here is to make sure everything compiles properly, so click "Build" on the menu bar at the top and select "Build Solution". This should take a bit of time, depending on how powerful of a computer you have. Something like one to two minutes is not uncommon because of all the !MediaPortal code that needs to be compiled.

If everything compiled correctly, then next you will want to test that the Configuration Screen launches correctly. Right click the !MovingPicturesConfigTester project and click "Set as Startup Project". Then from the menu bar at the top, click Debug -> Start Debugging. And there you go the Configuration Screen should pop up.

=== Problems? ===
If you get any errors with the _build process_, this most likely has to do with your References in one of your projects. In other words a project is most likely missing a dependency. In this case you will want to go through each project checking for any References flagged with a warning icon. If you find anything flagged, odds are it's a !MediaPortal project. Track it down and add it to your solution. At the time of this writing though, you should not have any issues, if you loaded in the two !MovingPictures projects and the five listed !MediaPortal projects you should be good to go. 

If you do have an issue you can't resolve, make a post over in the [http://groups.google.com/group/moving-pictures Moving Pictures General Discussion Group]. It is regularly monitored by the core developer(s). If we get enough discussion relating to development, in the future I might create a Development Google Group though. So if you see a link on the main Google Code page to a Development group, odds are I just haven't updated the document yet, so take a peek there.

= Submitting Changes =